
1-Life Parametrics x Suicide Relationship

The initial aim was to form a common area for both suicide data and life parametrics data. In this sense, years data existing for both of these gathered and the others were omitted with the use of “NATURAL JOIN”. Once the desired form was achieved, “NATURAL JOIN” method was applied once more with countries table, so that the names of the countries were in our hands to be used for making visualization more understandable rather than iso codes.

After the data of these two were put in a proper shape, an averaging process started for interpreting data as a whole instead of interpreting as separate year points. Hence, the table was grouped by country names and the average of suicide rates, life expectancy and life satisfaction was taken.

From this point on, scatter plot was decided on with the hope of showing the relation between three variables and identifying data patterns if there is any. In this plot, x and y axes were assigned to average life satisfaction and average life expectancy respectively. Moreover, to put average suicide rates into the picture, sizes and color coding were used. The larger size implies the larger suicide rates and this feature was supported with the colors, where colors’ meaning were represented through the legend used in the plot. Also, while plotting the data, it was the case that all countries available in our data had life expectancy greater than 40 and life satisfaction greater than 3. Therefore; the ranges, 0-40 for y axis and 0-3 for x axis, were trimmed out in order to put more focus on the real ranges.

When it comes to identifying the patterns for our scatter plot, we found that there is a correlation between life expectancy and life satisfaction, whose correlation coefficient is 0.79608989870765. This value can be considered as a strong positive correlation. Then, we analyzed the correlation between individual life parametrics and suicide rates, which was the ultimate aim. It turned out that there is a weak negative correlation between life expectancy and suicide rates, whose correlation coefficient is -0.2718401009515671. Furthermore, there is a very weak negative correlation between life satisfaction and suicide rates, whose correlation coefficient is -0.09808785820782981. Although this was not expected, we do not get any contradictory results that countries having higher life expectancy and satisfaction compared to the others, are in a range in which suicide rates are low. In addition to that, the highest suicide rate is observed in a country named “Lesotho” where the life expectancy and satisfaction values are so close to the values that are the lowest values obtained for life expectancy and satisfaction in our data.
